
# Methodology
***Methods for NURSE vowels extraction***
**ICE-Nig**
The data for this study were drawn from the International Corpus of English Nigeria (ICE-Nig). The corpus contains 1,010,382 collections, with 609,586 spoken words and 400,796 written words (Wunder et al., 2010). In our analyses, we include collections from five spoken genres of scripted speech, including broadcast talk (‘btal’; e.g., scripted speeches given on media), demonstrations (‘dem’; e.g., scripted speeches rendered in different settings…), lesson (‘les’; e.g., scripted speeches in classroom settings), non-broadcast talks (‘nbtal’; e.g., scripted speeches given in the media on Nigerian issues) and unscripted speeches (‘unsp’; e.g., classroom lectures and inaugural lectures on any topic). The selected speech styles are the least formal to reduce formality (Thomas, 2011; Labov 1966, 1972). These genres could be considered particularly in formal settings (but differ from news broadcasts with a higher formality) and most likely to evoke the standard variety of Nigerian English, compared to other genres such as telephone conversations or colloquial chats. All speakers in this study were NE users, including lecturers, journalists, lawyers, university students, and politicians. It should be noted that although they are considered middle-class and upper-class due to their occupations (Isiaka, 2017), their real social class is largely unknown, as mentioned in the corpus. This has consequences for the generalizability of the data.

The total number of speakers was ***ten***; the breakdown by gender and genre will be shown in Table 1 (dataset A). Our analyses were derived from dataset A, which included only those speakers for whom information regarding both gender and age was available (dataset B). A third subset of the data was used to examine the relationship between the acoustic quality of vowels. We did not include any certain token as a predictor because no substantial study has been conducted on the variety that explains NURSE vowels in any context. Studies (Di Paolo 1988; Faber 1990) discovered that vowels before approximants are more likely to be diphthongized or undergo a merger. This assumption is more useful for varieties that codify exceptional words that undergo mergers or diphthongization (Ladefoged, 2001; Mielke et al., 2019; Schneider et al., 2004). Meanwhile, Thomas (2011) does not discard the inclusion of vowels in the environment of approximants but rather suggests the need for a conscious effort to measure where the vowel is steady and consistent after or before approximants. That said, to determine lexical choices that trigger merger or diphthongization, the initial hypothesis concerning the phonology of the English variety must be documented; however, the understudied variety (e.g., Nigerian English) does not have information about this caution, as there is no previous study that meticulously reports this phenomenon. Thus, including every (content) word class for this study helps us hypothesize based on lexical choices for subsequent studies. No existing body of knowledge has investigated or discussed this trajectory in NE vowels either in the citation, connected speech, or sociolinguistic interview context; reporting approximant effects in the current study contributes to the existing knowledge of language variation and change across varieties of English in a monolingual/bilingual and multilingual context.


Table 1

**Extraction and Acoustic Analysis of Vowels**
ICE Nigeria contains automatic phonemic transcriptions created with WebMAUS (Schiel 2004). The web service creates phonemic transcriptions via forced alignment of orthographical transcriptions and sound files. The transcription will be manually corrected for both phoneme transcription and the location of onset and offset boundaries in Praat (Boersma & Weenink 2017). To specifically identify NURSE vowel production, we will create TextGrids based on the automatically generated annotations for NURSE vowels (Note: if there are alternative ways that script can extract for content words at specified interval, I will gladly consider it). We will measure onset vowels at 5ms away from the preceding segment (consonant) and offset vowels at 5ms before the following segment. The interval measurement within this period included the onset, midpoint, and offset for F1, F2, and F3, respectively. Only content words were analyzed in this study. These content words include monosyllabic, disyllabic, and polysyllabic words. Because of the nature of syllable-timing and inconsistency of stress patterns in disyllabic and polysyllabic and the undocumented nature of prosody of the variety, we will measure the NURSE vowels regardless of the syllable positions. 

**Analysis**


**The problem of a corpus study** 
A major limitation of this study is the limited representation of diverse social variables (such as age, occupation, and gender), which hinders a thorough investigation of language variation and changes in NURSE vowels in NE. The uneven representation of ethnicities within the corpus is particularly noteworthy, as it may result in skewed findings and an incomplete portrayal of the linguistic patterns across different social groups. Additionally, this corpus study may not fully capture the dynamic and evolving nature of language variation and change in the production of NURSE vowels, thereby limiting the ability to discern variations in the tense central vowel in NE comprehensively. While corpus studies provide valuable insights, they should be complemented by other research methodologies, such as fieldwork or targeted data collection, to ensure a more holistic and nuanced understanding of sociolinguistic phenomena (NURSE vowels in NE).



